We'll just take you through a few
steps to make sure that you care for
the board appropriately.
It can be damaged quite easily if you're
not careful, and so therefore we need to
make sure that you're not doing anything
you shouldn't be doing with it.
To start off, I've been asked this
a few times by several people,
what components can I touch?
Where can I stick my fingers on the board?
And the simple answer is,
is you shouldn't be touching it
anymore than you should have to.
If you do have to grab it,
grab it by the sides.
You don't want to be touching down on any
of the components, because again your
fingers conduct electricity and so
you can quite easily short the board.
Not to mention your hands are oily,
and sometimes you could be in a hot room
working and sweating and stuff like that.
It's best just not to touch it directly,
except for where you need to hold it to be
able to plug in a USB slot,
HDMI cables, things like that.
Or GPIOs or
whatever you happen to be doing.
You should the board on
a flat level surface so
that it can breathe appropriately.
It has to be able to get a nice wind flow
around it because you don't want it to
get warm or anything like that.
Just like any kind of computer, you have
to have room for ventilation, right?
>> But you'll notice also,
if you're board is getting too hot,
it will start to perform less.
Like any computer, so that's basically
how you overclock computers,
is by keeping it cool.
So you want it to stay nice and cool,
that's a good reason to keep it flat and
good ventilation.
>> Yeah if you keep it
in a well ventilated,
you should have no problem keeping
it under the right temperature.
And you also want to avoid
anything that's conductive.
So don't place it on like wires or
anything like that,
like exposed wires on your desk or
something like that.
Cause again, just like your fingers, they
could short out some of the components and
do some serious damage to the board.
And you also want to make
sure that you're not touching
the stuff that's prone to static.
So certain types of plastic and
things like that, like a balloon.
I don't know if you've ever took
a balloon and rubbed it on your head and
generate static electricity.
Something like that could just
the same cause damage to the board.
>> Yeah no, in fact that's why
the board comes in an anti-static bag.
You can find these bags all
around electronic stores.
It''s really good if you want
to place your board somewhere.
Put the bag down first place it
on top of the anti-static bag.
You can ruin your board just by
rubbing it up against the wrong
kind of plastic, so yeah,
definitely a good point.
>> Make sure you always properly shut down
the board before you unplug the power.
If you continuously shut it off by
just pulling the power cord out,
you can corrupt files and
basically break the board,
in which case you'll have to erase your
operating system and reflash it on.
And which never is never fun because
then you lose all the files you've been
working on.
So always properly shut it down
first before unpowering it.
>> Looks like I jumped the gun
on the anti-static container.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But yeah, so you know,
definitely comes with the anti-static
bag or the anti-static container.
Keep it in there.
There are special foams you can
get better anti-static foams.
Yeah, defiantly keep an eye on that.
>> Yeah, also, make sure that
you use approved power adapters.
As we said once in an earlier lesson,
that if you use too high of a voltage,for
a power adapter, you could actually melt,
burn, destroy, blow up, the board.
This one does have a really good range.
I think it goes up to,
I think we said, 6.5 to 18 volts.
>> Yeah, I believe so.
>> And two amps, but
you shouldn't be going over that, and
you also don't wanna be going under that.
Because, some things might not turn on or
not have enough power
to activate anything.
I mean,
we're more concerned with going over that.
But that's something
that I've done before.
I've hooked a 12 volt adaptor
into a 5 volt board and
it just didn't go out well so.
>> Yeah I'd also recommend
not going around the board,
poking around too deep because I
think there was one time where
I went into another board and just started
kind of deleting stuff just to clear up
space turns out I deleted
a bunch of partition tables.
And yeah, so that's also something.
If you're going to go around deleting
stuff, you might want to do the research
before you just start just
deleting anything you want.
>> Yeah.
And also a lot.
A lot of work we're gonna be
doing is by gaining root access.
So you're gonna have access
to all the files you want,
which means you can do some damage if
you don't follow the proper protocols.